This is an interview with Leland C. Johnson by
Tracy L. Swope on 4 December in Temple concerning
the Vietnam War. In the interest of accumulating
knowledge about the war, I'm going to donate this
tape to the Texas A&M Oral History Collection in
the University Archives. Is this all right with
you? Yes.
If you would, please, give us some background on
where you were born, where you went to school, and
how you joined the service. I was raised in
Colorado. pretty much on a farm. My father had
spent several years in the Air Force, well, the
Army when he started in the Air Force when he got
out.
I ran out of money my freshman year of college, and I
couldn't find any part-time work. I could find
lots of full-time work, and I ran into Master
Sergeant Kingrey, who was the Army recruiter. I
enlisted into the Army to go to the Warrant Flight
Program while I was in basic training they set it up
so that you enlisted directly into it and by the
time I got out of basic training there was a two year
waiting list to get into the program. I went to jump
school and reported out to Okinawa to the 173rd
Airborne Brigade separate as my first
assignment. I made buck sergeant E-5, 22 minutes
later for 22 months after going into the service
and had applied for OCS.
Got orders to go to Fort Benning, Georgia to the
infantry officers candidate school in February
of 1965. I
was commissioned in August of 1965 While I was in
OCS, the 173rd and the 3rd Marine Division
deployed off of Okinawa to Vietnam. I requested
relief from OCS to go back to my unit and it was
denied after a long father to son counseling
session with my company commander.
Went out to Fort Bragg and assumed a platoon
leader's job with the rifle company.
Stayed on that for about 90 days and because of my
prior enlisted experience with mortars and heavy
weapons, I had moved up to the headquarters
company and took over the heavy mortar platoon. On
two occasions they took all my troops away from me
except for myself, my platoon sergeant and one FDC
sergeant and gave us kids right out of basic
training to retrain. After having done that with
the second batch and got them qualified, I managed
to convince the Department of Army to send me to
Vietnam. And I reported into Vietnam in July of
with the first set of major replacements for the
173rd.
Go ahead. What was your feelings about flying in
and realizing you were going into combat? I wanted
to go. I volunteered. I was anxious to go.
I had been in the Army at this point in time for about
four years and had never been shot at. And we had
done all these little maneuvers with blank
ammunition and I wanted to see what it was like for
real. Basically to see whether I had what it took.
My initial experience getting shot at as a platoon
leader was that you were too busy to be scared. It
wasn't until after things got over with that you
were scared.
Where were you stationed in Vietnam? We operated
primarily in three corps, in Rung Sat Special
Zone, in Iron Triangle, and over close to the
Cambodian border. At the end of that tour we moved
up to two corps and relieved a brigade of the fourth
division that was basically non-deployable.
Which was, I left just before the 173rd lost a
battalion
off the mountain with two officers and 80 enlisted
men left out of a whole battalion.
What was your mission when you were there with your
platoon? Well, early on we were primarily looking
for Vietnamese
guerrillas. And these were basically guys that
were farmers in the daytime and guerrillas at
night. And we beat them at their own game. We took a
lot of casualties from booby traps, but we
basically cleaned them out of the area that we were
operating in. And it was towards the end of the tour
that we started running into conventional forces
or NVA regulars. And that's when the tone of the war
changed a whole lot. They were bringing in outside
supplies and outside personnel and bringing them
down a Ho Chi Minh trail. It wasn't us against a
bunch of farmers. It was us against
well-disciplined, well-armed, well-equipped
troops.
What would an average day be there like?
Stand two before first light.
That would go until about 30 minutes after first
light. We'd put out patrols, bring in our
listening posts, Everybody would eat breakfast
on the run, and then we would move. Sometimes we'd
have something we were looking for, and sometimes
we were just stumbling around in the jungle trying
to see what we could stir up. We'd move all day long,
sometimes as a unit, sometimes in small
squad-sized
patrols on a fan. Generally, we would not operate.
We wouldn't move at night, although sometimes we
did. and we'd dig in an hour before last night and
put out listening posts. Many times we'd put out
what they called Malaysian fan ambushes where I'd
break my platoon down into a lot of four and five man
ambush teams and we'd ambush a whole pattern of
trails so that if they came in from any direction
we'd have two or three separate ambushes that
would catch them as they came through and we were
able to interdict and kill a great many of the
guerrilla forces. When we got into where we were
doing battle with NVA, they operated in larger
strength which caused us to change our tactics
considerably and we had more platoon size
ambushes than 4 and 5M ambushes. Do you remember
your first day going out in the field? My first day,
I reported them, dropped off my duffel bag, picked
up a rucksack. The company was out in the field. I
was handed two soldiers to take out to the field
that had reported in late from R&R and had been
somewhat reluctant to go back out to the field. And
we hitchhiked, the helicopter rides out.
delivered these two characters to the first
sergeant, reported to my company commander, and
by this time it's about four o'clock in the
afternoon.
Company commander tells me that I'm replacing a
lieutenant who had just been shot, or stepped on a
mine about seven or eight hours before. My platoon
sergeant gives me a walk of our portion of the
perimeter very hurriedly, and
I can tell he's in some kind of a hurry, and I don't
really understand why, but anyway, after we spend
time and I ask questions about machine guns and
placement and all that and decide he knows what
he's doing, he allows us how I probably ought to put
up my shelter for the night, which I did, and the
only open piece of ground that was available.
And about the time I got my shelter half put up, it
commenced to rain like I had never seen it rain
before in my whole life. And a little piece of
ground that I had built my shelter around is not an
open piece of ground, it's an intermittent
stream. And I commenced to have all my worldly
possessions float away in two feet of water while
all the troops laugh at the new green lieutenant.
And that was my introduction to Vietnam.
Do you remember the first time you were fired off?
You took fire?
No, I can't really say as I do. Okay.
How did you feel about the enlisted men? Did you
develop a father-son type attitude, or? Well,
understand that I was 20 years old at the time.
I'll take that back. I had just turned 21 before I
reported into Vietnam. My platoon sergeant was a
guy I had known in Fort Bragg who was in the same
company with me in the 82nd,
who seemed to be older than Hills, I think he was
probably 35 or 36.
Most of the kids that were over there were
volunteers at least to the airborne, if not
volunteers to be in Vietnam and almost all of the
officers and senior NCOs were volunteers on their
first tour. Most of us were excited, we believed in
what we were doing, we thought we were better than
anybody else at it, and there was a close-knit
camaraderie that you get with special units like
Special Forces, Marine Force Recon, Airborne
that were probably not typical of the average
American infantry combat unit.
We didn't have major discipline problems. We
didn't have any drug problems.
We had, by and large, T or any strength for NCOs,
although there were a few shortages. And most of
them were professional. Good quality. A lot of
experience, although not in actual combat. They
had years of leading troops and were technically
very proficient in what they were doing.
I'm not sure that answers your question. Yes it
does. You were wounded over there, huh? Twice.
Twice. Do you have some highlights on that? Once we
were moving into Kordanoffa Village at night. It
was raining. It's hard to describe in the United
States how hard it can rain in Vietnam, but it
literally was raining so hard that you could not
see 15 feet. We were moving through the jungle and
the water was about a foot deep on the ground when
you get any kind of a low place. And we went in at
night to move in and cordon off this village.
Either I was lost or the company commander was
lost, but we ended up dropping a 105 shell in my back
pocket.
I picked up a small piece of steel, and helicopters
being what they were, I was in a hospital 45 minutes
later, and they picked it out. Well, or tried to
pick it out. The nurses weren't as competent there
as they could have
been. Ten days later I was out of the hospital and
back with my platoon. The second time we had a
Malaysian fan ambush out and we knew that there
were a lot of NVA and guerrillas working in the
area. I had my platoon busted down into five ambush
teams on a series of trail intersections. In those
days we had two radios per platoon and I had one and
the platoon sergeant had one. but the ambushes on
either side of me did not have a radio.
Clouds were hanging down where it was fog. When
you'd stand up, you were in the fog, and when you'd
lay down on the ground, you could just barely see
under. About 4 o'clock in the morning, the five of
us caught what looked to be about a 10-man carrying
party coming through our trail. And I opened up the
ambush with full tracer, and everybody else
started shooting. I could tell by the way one of
them fell that he probably wasn't dead. And when it
was all over, and I understand this whole
interchange probably lasted about 20 seconds, I
decided that we'd had the intelligence officer
asking us for prisoners that probably could
police this character up. And I went over in the
dark, and I could see an outline of where he was
laying in the dark. And I said something to him and
he used it, which later I found I did not mean what I
said I thought I did. And he shot me with a Sub
Thompson.
These TV westerns where you see where somebody
gets shot with a .45 and he staggers around and
gives his last will and testament is bullshit. I
did a complete somersault in the air before I hit
the ground and I probably weighed about 20 pounds
less than I do now. But I was still about 200 pounds.
It made me mad. I just, I got blind rage and I stood up
and I put a whole magazine into him and I flipped it
over and I put the other side of that magazine into
him and I'm fumbling around in my ammo pouch to get a
third magazine to put into him. When the
adrenaline started coming down and reason
started coming back and it dawned on me that I was
standing out in front of my own ambush, blazing
away, and I had no idea how many other of his guys
were around,
and I turned around and said, hold it, I'm coming
back, it's me, and started to walk back. Well, my
leg gave way on me at that point in time, and I
crawled back to where I was at, and it was still
dark, I had no medic with me, and I'm feeling around
on my leg, trying to find out where I'm hit, because
it's It doesn't really hurt. It feels like
somebody hit you in the leg with a sledgehammer.
You know it's going to hurt, but right now it's just
numb. And I lose these three fingers up to the
second knuckle. I said, well, it's probably just a
flesh wound. And I get out my battle dressing and I
put it on and tighten it off. And call in the company
commander and tell him that we've had some contact
and we've got several the enemy dead, and some rice
and a few weapons, and we've got one wounded.
And I'm trying to find a tackle way to tell him it's
me again. And finally I get up the courage enough to
tell him that it was this dumb lieutenant that
managed to get himself shot again. And he said some
words that we won't repeat on here. This time we had
such overcast that we couldn't get a helicopter
in, even after it got light. It was about noon
before we could get a helicopter with a penetrator
to come down through the canopy and get me out of
there. But after it got light, what we found out was
that the bullet had gone in here and had come out
over here, and what I thought was just a grazing
wound was the exit wound, and at 45 it left a pretty
good sized hole. I was fortunate in that I did not
lose my leg. They yanked me out of there and hauled
me to the hospital and debrided it.
And in about two weeks I got out of the hospital,
although I wasn't walking too well. They had given
my platoon over my ejections to another
lieutenant who might have been fairly well.
He managed to get himself seriously wounded about
two weeks after that and was evacuated back to
Fitzsimmons Army Hospital in Denver. He got shot
in the head and he was never really right after
that. My platoon sergeant and I had a relationship
that was somewhat unique. He was a
Czechoslovakian. who had been policed up as a
young boy in the Second World War with the German
labor force. And during a B-17 raid over Germany,
they had knocked a hole in the fence and he had
managed to escape and steal a bicycle and evacuate
E&E back to the British lines. He joined the
British Army and spent two or three years with
them. After a couple years with the British Army,
Desation came to the United States and enlisted in
the American Army. He spoke German with the Berlin
Iraqis and Czechoslovakian and several other
Slavic languages and they put him in civilian
clothes and sent him back to Berlin with special
forces and after several years at that he had ended
up
with me and Fort Bragg And he was an NCO acting as
platoon leader and I was a lieutenant acting as
platoon leader. And he used to beat me hands down at
every damn thing we had for competition. We got to
Vietnam and he ended up being my platoon sergeant.
His English was about the only language he didn't
have full command of. I was probably the only guy in
the company that could understand him on the
radio.
He had a bit of a drinking problem, and we had sort of
an unwritten agreement that when we came back out
of the field, the first 48 hours were D's, and I
would run the platoon, and he would go up in some
corner and get blown away for two days, and then he
would come back stone cold sober and function with
the platoon. If there was any time left over, I got
to goof off. Unfortunately, when I briefed my
lieutenant replacement on that, and he
understood it, But when he got shot, we got a new
company commander by the same time. And he called
Dee in during the first 48 hours. Dee showed up at a
company commander's briefing for an operation,
three sheets to the wind, and it took everything I
could muster to keep him from getting
court-martialed. Dee later retired as a first
sergeant, but it took a lot of maneuvering to keep
him from getting court-martialed after showing
up at that damn briefing.
My relationships with the troops were probably
not as close, although you felt it was a family.
You ate the same food they did, you suffered the
same hardships they did, You knew their girls and
their wives and how many kids they had. And when one
of them got hurt, you hurt.
I don't think Vietnam was unique in that. Any
combat environment where you've got a group of men
that are strongly dependent upon each other for
their very existence, you get that kind of a
bonding.
Did you have Vietnamese in your platoon, and if so,
how did you feel about them? First tour, I didn't
have any Vietnamese in my platoon. I went back as a
company commander, second tour. When was? Let's
see, I went back in July of 67
for my second tour, and I was a company commander. I
had Ket Carson scouts. Now, this time I was with the
1st Air Cavalry Division, and we were operating up
in I-Corps and it went from the Street Without Joy
area on the beach all the way back into the Esho
Valley.
We had kit cars and scouts which were supposedly
NVA that we had captured or guerrillas that we had
captured and they had seen the light and now they
were going to come work for us.
Some of them were good, some of them were
dangerous. We used them as interpreters, we used
them to
help give us a feel for what the NVA were likely to
do, especially when we got into bunker complexes
or something like that, they had a better feel and
understanding
you know, within the unit. We did not have
integrated units.
When you were there the second time, it was after
tech. Did you run into a drug or racial problem
there?
There's always been some racial problems in the
services, because we draw our people out of
civilian life, and they bring all of the emotional
baggage into the military with them. I think that
probably the services do a better job at putting
everybody on an equal status than do most of the
civilian environments, but yeah there was some
racial problems there. Not to the point where we
had conflict.
My first sergeant was black.
Some of my NCOs were black.
a number of my troops were black, a number of them
were Hispanic. The only real problems we had were
part of McNamara's 100,000.
Those weren't all black though, they were
predominantly black because they came in. Do you
understand what McNamara's 100,000 is? Okay.
We're talking about kids who are one standard
deviation below the mean in terms of
intelligence, predominantly from inner cities,
predominantly minorities, a lot of them with a
chip on their shoulder,
and because of their lack of any educational
skills or skills of any kind, the biggest part of
them ended up in the combat arms.
Most of them felt they'd been put in the combat arms
because they were being picked on, in most cases
they had been put in the combat harness because
they couldn't qualify for anything else
we had some problems with them but nothing that
causes any real loss of effectiveness in the
company if we had any drug problems and i'm not
naive enough to say that we didn't i was not aware of
it while i was a company commander predominantly
because My kids came in, they dropped their duffel
bags, we picked up a rucksack and they never saw
Civilization again until they went on R&R. They
got one five day R&R in a year. And that was their
only real opportunity to buy drugs unless it was
being mailed in and we did a pretty good job of
keeping tabs on the mail. I was there when the mail
chompers came in and it was, you could see what was
going on.
If anybody brought any grass or anything back,
they didn't bring back enough to last them very
long. And I really believe that most of my troops
would not have tolerated that in a combat
environment. And they didn't get back to a base
camp operation.
The drug problems that became so famous in Vietnam
were predominantly around rear area units and
units that operated out of a base camp most of the
time. And we just did not have access. We stayed out
in no man's land.
You left the second time. How did you feel about
leaving your men behind, or even the first time?
Well,
rotation was an ongoing process. And in the period
of a year, you'd see your whole unit change.
It was everybody's time. After I spent seven
months with the company, I left the company. and
went to the battalion to serve as the intelligence
officer. So I hadn't really left them then as much
as I had moved across the street from the
battalion. My departure from the company as the
company commander was somewhat traumatic in that
I was due to rotate and go on R&R and then come back
and assume the position of the battalion S-2.
They had a new West Point captain that was coming in
to take the company and the battalion commander
came down and said he wanted to delay my R&R by two or
three days so that I could go out and take one last
mission.
The guys in G2 had developed some radio intercepts
and some hotspots that they wanted me to go check
out with my company. And I said, yeah, that was no
problem, but I wanted to go on R&R, and the old man
said that he would let me have his helicopter to get
to Da Nang a couple hours before the flight left, so
that I could make R&R on schedule, because Jerry
had already left the States.
Well, we C8 in to a Colville Z and started moving to
where the radio intercepts were.
We ran into an old bunker complex that hadn't been
used for looked like a year or two. And then as we
proceeded on farther north, all probably a
quarter of a mile to half a mile, we started running
into newer construction. Simultaneously to my
moving north, we had an assister company that was
moving down to the south. It was lost. and they were
reporting their position very close to me. And I
had put out the word to my point elements to
identify positively before they fired on
anything because we had one of our own companies
moving in. About that time, my point element
reported that they were affecting link-up. What
we linked up with, unfortunately, was an NVA
regiment One company, which was in American
uniforms, had American equipment, had newer
American equipment than I had. And I lost a whole
platoon in about 30 seconds. After that, they
maneuvered on us. And I had basically two line
platoons and a mortar platoon.
and we did battle with what was the better part of a
regiment for about four hours.
Fortunately, we brought in the air cab, the first
cab division that had what they called aerial
rocket artillery, which was a process for using
gunship very much the way Marines use close air
support, because we were out of conventional
artillery range.
We got gunship support and as I am trying to
evacuate the rest of my wounded back out
understand we made initial contact about one
o'clock in the afternoon it gets dark over there at
that time of the year about six and about 430 I have
gotten most of my wounded out I've got three dead
that are unaccounted for but I'm 95% sure I did
I've got myself, my artillery, forward observer,
one medic, and my two RTOs
with me. I've lost one of my lieutenants who got
shot as close to me as I'm sitting to you. One of my
lieutenants who is the one of about four or five
survivors out of this lead platoon that made the
link up is virtually ineffective. He's kind of
gone off the deep end. And I've got one lieutenant
that wasn't real functional. He had the mortar
platoon and he was he was scared. We've gotten all
of them back and we're getting ready to withdraw
because we've been laying down covering fires,
the rest of the company, and they closed behind us.
So now I've got about the six of us surrounded. By
this time, it is about 545 in the afternoon. It is
just about dark, and two more ARA birds come on the
station. We're unfortunate in that we're in a
little bitty depression, about 18 inches deep and
kind of an intermittent stream. And he comes on and
I said, I need you to lay these rockets about 10 feet
on either side of me. And I had a little strobe light
so he could see me. And he said, I can't lay it that
close. And I said, if you don't, it's not going to
make any difference. And he said, OK, I'm rolling
hot. And he brought those two birds in and put those
rockets down like he laid a chalk line and just laid
a string out of each side of that thing. wingman
came in right behind him and we picked up and hauled
ass. And that's the only reason I'm here today.
Tremendous job. Those guys
really did a great job. Anyway, we got back to where
the rest of the company was. We had cut a place where
we could evacuate our wounded from and the rest of
what was left of us wagon wheeled and licked our
wounds. and they dumped 2,000 rounds of artillery
into that place that night, and the next morning
three companies moved into the area. Most of the
NVA had evacuated, but what we found was the
staging area for the 69 tele-offensive. It didn't
happen, because we stumbled into the staging area
for it. Now, they weren't prepared to do another
68, but they were going to do a 69. We found A
whole headquarters complete with radios and
mimeograph machines. They hauled rockets and
stuff out of there for a week and then they finally
blew what was left in place because I couldn't
afford any more blade time to haul it out. But, it
cost me 52 guys out of my company. You know, they
weren't all dead, but either dead or wounded. 52
guys. Now, I normally went to the field with
somewhere around, oh, 110 to 115. Now, I
left the company the next day to go on R&R. Now, that
hurt.
I came back a week later and was the battalion
intelligence officer. I had the same unit. But
that was not a good time to leave.
When you returned to the state, before I go on, how
did you feel about the policy that was being used?
When I first went to Vietnam,
we were there to protect
the Vietnamese government from being overrun.
And early on in the stage, the Vietnamese
government was losing about two battalions a
month. you could sit down there and
mathematically count on basically how long the
government was going to last on a logarithmic
curve.
We pretty much turned the war around in terms of
defeating the guerrilla forces. That doesn't
mean we found all of them, but we had stopped the
horrendous losses that the Arvin army was taking.
Then they brought in the NVA, where they could come
down out the borders, come in, raid, make
assaults, move back across the borders.
I suppose the situation was very similar to some of
the problems that they had in Korea, but it didn't
take a tactical genius to figure out that if they
had a line that they could cross where we couldn't
follow them, we couldn't win. I maintained, as a
young captain, not being privy to all of the
problems that the government was looking at, that
we should have mobilized the country as a whole.
Number one, to ensure that the country was
together. And two, we should have taken the war to
Vietnam, or North Vietnam. And three, there
should have been no safe areas. If they go in there,
we go after them. I found once
an American POW camp in Cambodia that they would
not let me go after. I had gone into Cambodia after
being, after chasing some guys up to the river, and
I left my company and took three volunteers with
me, which I got chewed out for later, and went
across the river and found an American, a very
small one, but an American POW and they would not
let me go get it because it was in Cambodia and it was
off limits. Six months later, when Nixon
authorized American troops to go into Cambodia,
that Pildokia camp had been moved.
And I couldn't bust it with three guys. Do you feel
bitter about the way the government did it? I don't
know whether bitter is the right word. I think that
before we get involved in any more conflicts, that
we need to make a hard, cold decision whether we
want to win.
And if so, we need to take the appropriate steps to
do that. If not, stay the hell out of it. We
basically lost 55,000 guys for nothing. Do you
feel the war was winnable?
I don't know. I think we had a better shot at it than
we did if they had turned us loose.
The problem is that we were trying to hold up a
government that was corrupt, inept,
and doomed to failure. The war was probably
winnable, but I think it was only winnable if we
took over the government and rebuilt it much like
we did in Japan after the Second World War. To prop
up the government as it existed was doomed to
failure because it did not have the popular
support of the people. The Communists did not have
the popular support of the people either in terms
of percentages.
Most of the people just wanted to be left alone. The
government would come in in the daylight and take
their number one son and half their rice, and the
NVA would come in at night, take the number two son
and the other half of the rice. The poor guys were
left in the middle.
But Vietnam damn near destroyed American
service. It took us eight to ten years to put the
Army back together. The officer corps at the end of
75 was bitter, disillusioned.
There was a widespread movement for a while
amongst the troops to unionize, which had some
support from the general officer corps. It was not
a fun time. Most of the troops felt betrayed.
And it was probably not until the late 70s, early
80s
that we finally got the NCO Corps and the officer
corps put back together.
One of the problems we had from, oh, 68 on was that
the Army had expanded so fast that we didn't have
the NCO Corps.
We made, at least in the Army, I don't know what the
Marines did, what they called jokingly as the
Shake and Bake MCO Academy. And basically they ran
an OCS for NCOs. They would send them down to Fort
Benning, and we would turn out either E-5s or E-6s
in eight weeks. You'd take a kid who did well on his
basic qualifying scores, on his initial entrance
examinations into the military, And he did fairly
well in basic and AIT. They would send him to Fort
Benning, running through the NCO Academy, and he
would come out as an E-5 in the top, I think, 5% or 6%
got to be E-6s.
For what they had to do and the training they had,
they did an outstanding job. but they still didn't
have the 10 years of experience in dealing with
people that we expected from most of our NCOs. On
several occasions as a company commander in
Vietnam, I had E-4s run in platoons.
Considering what we had to work with, they did an
outstanding job. I know of no other army in the
world that you can decimate your nco ranks and end
up with corporals and e4s and e5s taking over e7's
jobs
what do you feel about what's more
while i was at the commander general staff college
at fort leavenworth
We had a number of general officers come to speak.
Most of these were required attendants, although
most of us were probably gone anyway.
Westmoreland, after he had retired, showed up as a
visiting guest speaker, not required
attendance, basically hawking his book.
It was scheduled after class hours. at four
o'clock in the afternoon, and of the 800 odd majors
and lieutenant colonels in that class, about 150
of us showed up.
Leavenworth is unique in that, that and the War
College, there is a policy that when you get
visiting officers in, there is no such thing as
rank. You can ask any question. It cannot be done in
an impolite manner, but what is said in those
rooms, stay in those rooms.
Westmoreland went on about his book and why he
thought that some of our political decisions were
incorrect. And a young major who had, and all of us
had served under Westmoreland,
asked him if he was so opposed to the what was going
on over there. Why did he not resign in protest to
make a statement? And his answer was, well, he
thought he could do better staying there. At which
time, better than half of the 150 of us got up and
walked out.
I'm not sure that answers your question.
When you left Vietnam, When you came back and you
became a student with the Army, tell me where you
went and your experiences there. Well, you know
that I was enlisted before I got commissioned. I
became well aware of that in my second tour. If I
wanted to stay in the service, a degree was an
absolute requirement. And I wrote a letter back to
the Department of the Army stating at the end of my
tour in Vietnam, I was eligible to get out of the
army or if I extended I was eligible for
reassignment and I basically told them that at the
end of that tour I was going back to school if I had to
go back as a civilian I would and then I would come
back in later but I would like to apply for what was
called the bootstrap program at that point in time
or the pilot program for the bootstrap
I didn't hear anything I didn't hear anything I
didn't hear anything I told you about the day that I
was due to go on R&R, and
after having lost these 52 guys, I'm sitting in a
hole. I've got water up to my knees. My morale was, I
feel like I have, I've really done something bad.
At this point in time, I don't know that I've run
into a regiment that I didn't have a chance. I think
I really screwed up and cost a whole bunch of people
their lives.
the mail bird comes in and I get a letter from Jerry
and some correspondence from Axel and a long
letter from the Department of Army basically
stating that if I want to I can go back to college.
At the end of that tour I went back to Adams State
College in Colorado which is a small teaching
college that has a pretty decent business
department. And I went to that one because they
were the first one that sent me back a letter
saying, yeah, we'll accept you and you can
complete your four years of school in less than 24
months.
I wore civilian clothes most of the time, but this
was 69 and 70 in the days of...